tests/README.md, before:

# Unit Tests for Kanji Recognition Project

This directory contains unit tests for the kanji recognition project using pytest.

## Test Structure

- `conftest.py`: Shared pytest fixtures used across all test files
- `test_parse_etl9g.py`: Tests for ETL9G parsing functions
- `test_clean.py`: Tests for image processing functions
- `test_prepare.py`: Tests for LMDB storage and ETL pipeline

## Running Tests

Run all tests from the project root directory:

```bash
make run python -m pytest
```

Run tests with verbose output:

```bash
make run python -m pytest -v
```

Run tests with coverage report:

```bash
make run python -m pytest --cov=src
```

Run specific tests:

```bash
make run python -m pytest tests/test_parse_etl9g.py
make run python -m pytest -k "test_read_records"
```

## Test Design

The tests use a combination of:

1. **Mock objects**: Using `unittest.mock` to isolate components
2. **Fixtures**: Shared test data and setup/teardown logic
3. **Parameterization**: Testing multiple inputs with the same test logic
4. **Temporary directories**: For testing file I/O operations

## Test Coverage

The tests cover:

- ETL9G record parsing and image extraction
- Image processing (cropping, padding, black/white conversion)
- LMDB database operations
- Error handling and edge cases

## Adding New Tests

When adding new tests:

1. Follow the existing naming conventions
2. Use appropriate fixtures from `conftest.py`
3. Mock external dependencies
4. Test both normal operation and error handling

Commit message:

Add 'make test' command to run unit tests in Docker; update documentation for testing instructions

tests/README.md, after:

# Unit Tests for Kanji Recognition Project

This directory contains unit tests for the kanji recognition project using pytest.

## Test Structure

- `conftest.py`: Shared pytest fixtures used across all test files
- `test_parse_etl9g.py`: Tests for ETL9G parsing functions
- `test_clean.py`: Tests for image processing functions
- `test_prepare.py`: Tests for LMDB storage and ETL pipeline

## Running Tests

Run all tests from the project root directory:

```bash
make test
```

You can pass additional arguments to pytest using the TEST_ARGS variable:

```bash
# Run tests with verbose output
make test TEST_ARGS="-v"

# Run tests with coverage report
make test TEST_ARGS="--cov=src"

# Run specific tests by name
make test TEST_ARGS="-k test_read_records"

# Run tests in a specific file
make test TEST_ARGS="tests/test_file.py"

# Combine multiple options
make test TEST_ARGS="-v --cov=src tests/test_clean.py"
```

Note: Always use the TEST_ARGS variable to pass arguments to pytest. Do not pass arguments directly to the make test command.

You can also still use the original method:

```bash
make run python -m pytest
```

## Test Design

The tests use a combination of:

1. **Mock objects**: Using `unittest.mock` to isolate components
2. **Fixtures**: Shared test data and setup/teardown logic
3. **Parameterization**: Testing multiple inputs with the same test logic
4. **Temporary directories**: For testing file I/O operations

## Test Coverage

The tests cover:

- ETL9G record parsing and image extraction
- Image processing (cropping, padding, black/white conversion)
- LMDB database operations
- Error handling and edge cases

## Adding New Tests

When adding new tests:

1. Follow the existing naming conventions
2. Use appropriate fixtures from `conftest.py`
3. Mock external dependencies
4. Test both normal operation and error handling
